[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> In practices, each of us is
the manifestation of a unique
karmic predicament.
And that unique
karmic predicament
has to do with balances of
mind, and heart, and energies.
It has to do with the
whole web and mosaic
of the attachments, attractions,
and aversions of our mind.
And so from there, what
practice do you do to get free?
Well the answer
really is that there
is no rule book in this game.
There is no one practice
that's going to work.
Each of us is in a
unique predicament.
And we have to
listen to hear what
way is going to work for us.
And we have to recognize
that at different stages
of our development,
different practices work.
When you initially
start out, you often
optimize your strong points.
If you're a person of heart,
you are attracted to singing
to God.
Later on, you may
be drawn to working
with the fire of
the places which
are really not the ones you've
led with in your personality.
That is, you go
to quiet the mind
even though you're
a devotional person.
I have been, as
you know, accused
many, many times of
eclecticism, which is often
treated as a dirty word.
I mean people like
Swami Satchidananda
has said you must not dig
a lot of shallow wells,
you must dig one well deeply.
And I hear him, and I
understand what he's saying.
I can't help myself.
In my practice, which is Guru
Kripa or grace of the guru,
how does that express
itself in form?
It's led me to take teachings
in various forms of meditation.
It's led me to devotional
and ecstatic practices.
It's led me to energy things.
It's led me to working
with LSD and psychedelics.
And I respect and
honor my inner truth
that guides me to what
practices I am drawn to.
And other people tell me
what they think I should do
and I run that into
my intuitive heart,
and I listen, and
I process, and then
I do what I feel I need to do.
The closest I have to God
is in the deepest part
of my intuitive heart.
And it's not going to come
through anybody else's saying
things.
Even Maharaj Ji said many things
to me that I have never done.
But I felt them working
on me, and working on me,
and working on me.
Because if I imitated
or did what he told me,
I would end up imitating
something that I wasn't.
And yet at some
times, I practiced
by doing those
kinds of things just
to see the nature of
the clinging of my mind.
And the funny thing
about practices,
as I said the other day, is
that practices are traps.
And for them to work, you
must be trapped by them.
But any practice worth
its salt, ultimately,
self-destructs to take
you beyond itself.
But you've got to
go into it first.
You see the whole
journey you are on.
It's like the one who
wants enlightenment
comes right up to the gate
but never goes through.
Only nobody gets free.
Now we may have practices
that you do in the morning
before you meet the
people who won't
understand what you're doing.
Or you might have
practices that you
can keep in your pocket
or all kinds of practices.
But ultimately, appreciate
that your entire life
is your practice.
At first it starts
out that I practice
on Sunday morning,
or Saturday night,
or every morning for 20
minutes, but ultimately
what else is there?
Because until you are free,
you are caught in suffering.
As long as you are
caught in suffering,
no matter how
compassionate you are,
you cannot free
others from suffering.
And when you look
at the web of life
and you open to your
identity with all of it,
and you feel the whole nature
of the suffering, the freedom
from suffering, the
cause of ignorance,
when it's all
inside you, and you
want to liberate others,
not out of personal desire
but just out of itself
liberating itself,
then the work on the instrument
becomes what life is about.
And you feel joy in being
able to transform your life.
So more and more, you see it
as a vehicle for awakening.
[MUSIC PLAYING]